

Are there patterns in leavers?

3 Groups of Leavers

	1)
	Long Working Hours (Median: 275 Vs 200 and Max>300)
	Work-Life was imbalance
	Overloaded (6 projects Vs 4)
	Low Salaries
	57% Low Salary
	40% Medium Salary

	2)
	Their working hours as well as number of projects were not extreme
	Probably wanted to gain experience not interested to sta

	3)
	Long Working Hours (Median: 245 Vs 200 and Max=300)
	Work-Life was imbalance
	Low Salaries
	60% Low Salary
	38% Medium Salary

Angles, Leavers by:

Salary Type, Promotions, Hours, Overworked, By Department
Satisfaction Levels, Years at company, Work Accidents

Why: Increase Retention, and don't want to give promotions/raises to people likely to stay

Who is furthest from leaving? What are they like?

Who is very likely to leave? What are they like?

Interesting ideas.....

 Engaging with the employees likely to churn.
 Seperate by Departments: Sales/Technical/Support

 We have 10 departments, what are thier average salaries/length of stay
 Which are most important for company stability...  
 might not care about churn in sales, 
 but care alot about IT, as they are harder to replace

# Run some boosted models on these.... 

- Logistic Regression
- Random Forest
- Support Vector Machine
- Voting Classifiers
- AdaBoost
- Gradient Boosting
- CatBoost
- XGBoost

Need: Actionable Items!

Sales 				1
Technical 			1 
Support 			1
IT 					2
HR 					2
Accounting 			2
Marketing 			2
Product Management 	2
R and D 			3
Management 			3


2nd order thinking

Of people predicted to leave -> what's easiest way to keep them?

Of people predicted to stay -> HOw do we keep them from the edge?
		What helps the most?

Prefactual – Involving potential future outcomes. E.g. ‘What will X cause to happen?’


Counterfactual – Contradicting known facts. 
E.g. ‘If Y happened instead of X, what would be the outcome?’


Semi-factual – Contemplating how a different past could have lead to the same present. 
E.g. ‘If Y had happened instead of X, would the outcome be the same?

Prediction– Theorising future outcomes based on existing data. Predictions may involve mental or computational models. 
E.g. ‘If X continues to happen, what will the outcome be in one year?’


Hindcasting– Running a prediction in reverse to see if it forecasts an event which has already happened. 
E.g. ‘X happened, could Y have predicted it?’


Retrodiction– Moving backwards from an event to discover the root cause. Retrodiction is often used for problem solving and prevention purposes. E.g. ‘What caused X? How can we prevent it from happening again?’


Backcasting – Considering a specific future outcome, then working forwards from the present to deduce its causes. 
E.g. ‘If X happens in one year, what would have caused it?’